 
(1) I'm not happy with the notation I've been using for the parameter that multiplies distance in SCR models.  Rahel uses "sigma" because she's always talking about the half-normal model. Thats perfectly fine.  I've always used alpha1 = 1/(2(sigma*sigma)) just because if you use any model besides the half-normal model, then they don't have a "sigma" parameter.
But the problem this induces is a general inconsistency throughout the book.

 
(2) regarding mark-resight or no-mark-resignt:  It seems to me that WHERE a guy is observed in space is IMPERFECT information about its identity and so these models are a type of identity error model in that sense.  I never saw that point made anywhere and I wonder if it should be made somewhere? 
 
(3) I  have alweays referred to SCR detection models as implying a primitive type of movement model where movements are iid about a central point.  I wonder if this is confusing and instead of calling them "movement models" we should use the term "space usage model" exclusively?  I guess the jargon shouldn't matter too much as long as we're not over-selling things.

(4) We must talk about expected sample area somewhere.


(5) using auxiliary information?



Things to look into:

Need to have Kimmy check all linked stuff

Parallel JAGS

RCPP bugs....

Chapter 1

   Big map of types of SCR models and what needs to be done
 

Chapter 1b


Chapter 2    Bayesian analysis/GLMS

(a) Get a new binomial example ???

(b) GoF stuff is probably rubbish. Take that out?

(c) Need to include a discussion of dummy varibles for modeling
cateogrical effects and the use of "parameter index" vectors.
This issue should be re-hashed at some later chapter.... perhaps twice.....


Chapter 4: SCR0

(a) Why is JAGS not working for wolverine discrete state-space?
 -- FIX THIS PROBLEM
 --- doesn't work, never will....
 
(c) Add section with a clear statement of assumptions: Bivariate
normal , stationary, home range.   iid actiivtyh centers -- no
clustering -- no gradient -- etc... Cite Efford et al. 2009 on effect
of clustering -- Note that these assumptions can all be relaxed and
arguments about "truth" are red herrings.
The other argument is "iid" detections.

Chapter 5: Other observation models - Poisson/multinomial

 (a) material on acoustic arrays
 (b) material on trapping webs


Chapter 7: MCMC

Improve the tuning in the bear analysis
Add Geweke statistic to sueful commands section
Can we run partial ID models in BUGS? 
Add material on ParallelBUGS

Chapter 9: Modeling encounter probability

(a) Beth: Can you put in wildcat analysis?
(b) Try running this in JAGS maybe faster?
(c) Need some brief discussion of model Mh and home range area heterogeneity

Chaper 10:

  put nlm() output from example of fitting models by MLE 



Chapter 20: Vignettes

 (a) using telemetry
 (b) combining multiple types
 (c) analysis of cap crap data
 (d) analayis of data on a stream network (fish, Beth?)
 (e) Strauss process (Beth?)  
