models so far:
 each individual in a population can be uniquely
identified when captured.
not always, or even usually, possible using common methods of sampling. 

In this chapter, we investigate spatially explicit alternatives for estimating density
of unmarked populations,... that is estimating density when individual
identity is not possible or not available, and when auxiliary
information about detectability (such as distance) is not available.


model for counts conditioned on underlying SCR model which is
compleetely latent. The encounter histories are completely latent and
the observed counts are aggregations of the latent encounter
histories.

The models here are based on simple counts at trap or search areas 
which 
are modeled as a reduced-information summary of the \textit{latent}
encounter histories. Because the model is formulated in terms of the
data we wish we had, i.e. the typical encounter history data observed
in standard capture-recapture studies of marked animals, the SC model
is just a SCR model with a single extension to account for the fact
that the encounter history data are unobserved. However, this results
in a drastically different model than the models typically used for
count data in ecology because the SC model is parameterized in terms of
individuals, and specifically, their locations relative to the
sampling device.

Using the methods in this chapter, we find that SCR models can
be applied to data collected using methods like points counts in which
observers record simple counts of animals at an array of survey
locations. The model can also be fitted to camera trapping data collected on
unmarked animals, representing one of the first formal method for estimating
density from such data.

We focus 
on situations in which all individuals are unmarked, and
we begin by presenting the most basic formulation of the model. Then we proceed, by
way of a few examples, to consider extensions of the model in which
ancillary information can be used to increase precision.
Examples:
A little bit of a simulation example.
Bird point counts (Northern parula in MD)

Extensions:
 improving precision by having prior from literature, or some marked
 individuals.....(covered in detail in chapter 19). We give an example
 of 
Dusky salamanders in MD   - a removal type of study. 

spatial correlation as information.... close by counts are correlated.







