

Throughout most of this book we have dealt with the situation where
all individuals are identifiable upon encounter because they
carry some form of individual mark. In Chapt. \ref{chapt.scr-unmarked}
we introduced and developed an SCR model for non-identifiable
populations, a spatial {\it non}-capture-recapture model, if you will.
These two extremes are common in the study of animal populations with
non-invasive sampling methods. However, there is also an intermediate
situation where part of the population is tagged or otherwise marked
and can thus be identified upon recapture, while the unmarked portion
remains unidentifiable.  In this situation so-called mark-resight
models \citep{bartmann_etal:1987, arnason_etal:1991, neal_etal:1993}
can be used to estimate population size and density by combining data
from both the marked and unmarked individuals.

Traditionally, capture-recapture studies involved physical capture and
marking of individuals throughout the study.  This methodology is
still widely applied in the study of species that are relatively easy
to capture, such as small mammals, but can be very costly,
logistically challenging and risky when dealing with larger
species. In contrast, in mark-resight studies a sample of individuals
is captured and tagged (or otherwise marked) during a single marking
event. Marking is followed by resighting surveys, upon which both the
detection of marked
and unmarked animals
is recorded. Resighting surveys are usually non-invasive (hence the
name `resighting'), so that they don't involve handling of animals. As
such, mark-resight models have a major advantage over traditional
capture-recapture models in that they only require individuals to be
captured and handled once, during the initial marking. This reduces
field costs and risks for the animals (and potentially the
researchers).

Mark-resight models have a set of underlying assumptions, most of
which are identical to those of capture-recapture models; e.g.,
demographic population closure (violation of geographic population
closure can be accommodated by some models) and no loss or
misidentification of marks (see also Chapt.~\ref{chapt.scr0}).  Just
like standard capture-recapture models, there are means to incorporate
heterogeneity in capture probability. An essential assumption of
mark-resight models is that the marked individuals are a
representative sample of the study population, so that inference about
detection can be made for the whole population from the marked
sample. While this is also an implicit assumption of capture-recapture
models, in mark-resight models this means that the process of marking
individuals requires careful consideration in order to produce a
random sample.  This assumption is usually addressed by employing a
different method for marking than for resighting.


Owing to the advantages of mark-resight over capture-recapture,
especially when dealing with hard-to-trap species, mark-resight is a
popular tool in wildlife population studies. The method has been
applied for decades
to a suite of species and survey techniques,
ranging from banding and resighting Canada geese
\citep{hestbeck_malecki:1989} to ear-tagging and camera-trapping
grizzly bears \citep{mace_etal:1994} to paintball marking and areal
resightings of large ungulates \citep{skalski_etal:2005jwm}.

In this chapter we consider mark-resight within
a spatial context and
develop a spatial mark-resight (SMR) model. To motivate this model
development, imagine you conduct a live-trapping study during which
you capture and mark a number of animals with individually
recognizable tags. Subsequently, you go back out to the field and
conduct resighting surveys on an array of locations, and during these
resighting surveys you see some of your marked individuals, as well as
new, unmarked ones. Then, for the marked animals you obtain the same
type of spatially explicit individual encounter histories as you would
in a standard SCR study. In addition, you obtain site (and occasion)
specific counts of individuals you did not mark.
SMR models make use of
both the encounter history data from the marked individuals and the
counts of unmarked individuals to estimate density and detection parameters.

In the following sections we first provide some background
information on mark-resight and the types of data such surveys can
provide. We will further explore the implications of the assumption of
the marked individuals being a random subset of the population, which,
in the context of SMR models refers to not only the \emph{demographic
  composition}, but also to the \emph{spatial distribution} of the
marked individuals in the state-space ${\cal S}$.
In many real life sampling situations, this assumption will not hold
-- animals will most often be marked in some region that does not
represent the entire state-space. As a result, the distribution of
marked individuals will generally \emph{not} follow a homogeneous point process,
but their activity centers will be concentrated in the vicinity of
where marking took place. 
For the sake of model development, however, throughout the central part of this chapter we will make the assumption that marked animals are a random sample from the population in ${\cal S}$. We will show that SMR models are hybrids of standard SCR models and the models
presented in Chapt. \ref{chapt.scr-unmarked} for data where
individuals cannot be uniquely identified. We explore models for both
known and unknown numbers of marked individuals, and for imperfect
individual identification of marks, and approaches to incorporate
telemetry location data. In the spatial framework, most of the
information on model parameters comes from the marked individuals. But
in Sec. \ref{partialID.sec.info} we will see that, analogous to the
models we developed previously in Chapt. \ref{chapt.scr-unmarked}, the
spatial correlation in counts of unmarked individuals also contributes
information about detection and movement.
We conclude the chapter by presenting some general strategies for addressing a situation where marked individuals are not a random sample from ${\cal S}$.



Background: classical stuff


 types of resighting: (1) known number of marked guys
  (2) unknown number of marked guys....

 (3) unknown mark status. .....  some of the resightings we identify as
 marked but some we don't bother to, so we dont know if they're marked or not


we give an example of (2) using canada geese from NC. 

We show a simulation  study to assess how much information  marked vs unmarked
guys contribute

We say a bit about using telemetry data....


We give an example using raccoons on the outer banks of NC.


We have a whole section on the importance of the random sample. Mostly
we expect this is not true, and the effect of this , and development
of extensions, needs to be the focus of future work.

