Alternative observation models

In previous chapters we considered various models of encounter
probability, both in terms of parametric functions of distance and
also a myriad of covariate models.  However, we have so far only
considered a specific probability model for the observations (we'll
call this the "observation model") -- the Bernoulli encounter process
model, which in secr is the proximity detector model. This assumes
that individual and trap-specific encounters are independent Bernoulli
trials. In this chapter, we focus on developing additional observation
models. The observation model could be thought of as being determined
by the type of device -- or, in secr terminology, the type of "detector."
We consider models that apply when observations are not binary and, in
some cases, that do not require independence of the observations.  For
example, if sampling devices can detect an individual some arbitrary
number of times during an interval, then it is natural to consider
observation models for encounter frequencies, such as the Poisson
model. Another type of encounter device is the "multi-catch" device,
which is a physical device that can capture and hold an arbitrary
number of individuals. A typical example is a mist-net for birds.  It
is natural to regard observations from these kinds of studies as
independent multinomial observations. A related group of devices that
produces dependent multinomial observations are the so-called
single-catch traps. The canonical examples are small-mammal live traps
which catch and hold a single individual. Competition among
individuals for traps induces a complex dependence structure among
individual encounters. To date, no formal inference framework has been
devised for this method although the independent multinomial model can
be a good approximation. The final sampling method covered in this
chapter involves acoustic recording devices, and we explain how to
analyze the resulting data. Throughout, several worked examples are
presented using using JAGS and secr.

Keywords: acoustic sampling, encounter probability, detection
function, observation model, Poisson model, multinomial model,
proximity detector, count detector, multi-catch detector, single-catch detector
