Hi Richard,
I figured since I am reading Ch11 (IPP) to write an abstract I could as well send you a few minor comments. This is such a straight forward yet awesome model extension... I wish I had had that for my PhD...
Anyway, here goes (line numbers are those that appear on the pdf):

p4, eq 1.1 - what is j? Has not come up in this chapter and I am so used to j meaning traps or points... but I guess it's an index for the covariates?
Same page, I found the explanation of beta0 a little confusing. So it's confounded with N, but it is also already defined and you have to estimate it if you want to predict abundance... how can you estimate a parameter if it's confounded? Maybe I have a wrong understanding of what confounded means... There are also a few typos and formatting issues in this paragraph.

Page 7: Why use R here for the number of activity centers? Why not stick with N?

Page 9, line 288: Which MCMC are you talking about here? This is a little unclear since there hasn't been any MCMC in this chapter so far.

Page 9, line 291: I'd be explicit and say that we simulate detection histories under the standard SCR detection model or something along that line,... Also, do you just estimate activity centers or also beta and other things? Again I would be more explicit.

Page 9, line 296: "... under a Poisson observation model based on the activity canters we simulated before..." or something along that line

Page 10, line 336: I'd put some emphasis on the fact that estimates are pretty good, even when we do not observe the activity centers. Also, I'd mention somewhere in the beginning of the example that you're also gonna estimate N, so you're actually doing a full SCR with IPP. I though you were just gonna assume N is known and just estimate beta. The fact that this is actually already an example of a full SCR model with IPP gets a little lost.

Page 11, line 350: What's the (rough) pattern of the spatial covariate?

Page 13: I had some trouble following the connection between smaller home ranges in higher density areas and the ecological distance issue. I think because it sounds like you say it's elevation that makes animals perceive distances as greater than they are but that's not actually the case when you have density dependent home ranges. So if I understand correctly, you use the ED concept on the same covariate as density to achieve the density dependent home ranges. But it took me quite a few reads to get there (and I am not even 100% sure that's the right interpretation). In the interest of the readability of the book I think it would be worth another paragraph to be more explicit about this.

Page 13, line 413: is scrDED including both ED and IPP?

Page 15: male jaguars (and male large cats in general) generally have larger home ranges and I'd maybe add a citation or 2 here (there should be some stuff in my 2011 jaguar paper in BiolCons).

Page 16: There's a telemetry based paper that actually shows that male and female jaguars use habitat differently; might be nice to cite here:
Conde, D.A., Colchero, F., Zarza, H., Christensen Jr., N.L., Sexton, J.O., Manterola, C., Chávez, C., Rivera, A., Azuara, D., Ceballos, G., 2010. Sex matters: Modeling male and female habitat differences for jaguar conservation. Biological Conservation 143, 1980--1988.

Great chapter!!

Cheers,
Rahel
